docs/manual/source/quicktour.rst, before:

##########
Quick tour
##########

To use ldap3 just import the objects you need from the ldap3 namespace. You can choose the strategy that the client will
use to connect to the server, there are 5 strategies that can be used for establishing a connection: SYNC, ASYNC, LDIF,
RESTARTABLE and REUSABLE.

With synchronous strategies (SYNC, RESTARTABLE) all LDAP operations return a boolean: True if they're successful, False
if they fail.

With asynchronous strategies (ASYNC, REUSABLE) all LDAP operations (except Bind that returns a boolean) return an
integer, the *message_id* of the request. You can send multiple requests without waiting for responses and get each
response with the get_response(message_id) method of the Connection object as you need it. You will get an exception if
the response has not yet arrived after a specified time. In the get_response method this timeout value can be set
(with the *timeout* attribute)) to the number of seconds to wait for the response to appear (defaults is 10 seconds).

THe library raises one of the exceptions defined in the LDAPExceptionError hierarchy to signal errors, the last
exception message is stored in the *last_error* attribute of the Connection object when available.

After any operation, you'll find the following attributes populated in the Connection object:

* result: the result of the last operation (synchronous strategies only)
* response: the entries found if the last operation is a search operation (synchronous strategies only)
* entries: the entries found exposed via the abstraction layer (useful when using ldap3 from the interactive shell)
* last_error: any error occurred in the last operation (synchronous strategies only)
* bound: True if the connection is actually bound to the server else False
* listening: True if the socket is listening to the server
* closed: True if the socket is not open

You can have a LDIF representation of the response of a search with::

    connection.response_to_ldif()

or you can save the response to a JSON string::

    entries = connection.response_to_json()

you can alose have the response saved to a file in JSON format::

    connection.response_to_json('entries-found.json')


Connections
-----------

The connection is the main object you use to perform any LDAP operation. You can create a connection with::

    # import objects and constants
    from ldap3 import Server, Connection, SIMPLE, SYNC, ASYNC, SUBTREE, ALL

    # define the Server and the Connection objects
    s = Server('servername', port = 389, get_info = ALL)  # define an unsecure LDAP server, requesting info on the server and the schema
    c = Connection(s, auto_bind = True, client_strategy = SYNC, user='username', password='password', authentication=SIMPLE, check_names=True)
    print(s.info) # display info from the server. OID are decoded when recognized by the library

    # request a few objects from the LDAP server
    c.search('o=test','(objectClass=*)', SUBTREE, attributes = ['sn', 'objectClass'])
    response = c.response
    result = c.result
    for r in response:
        print(r['dn'], r['attributes'])  # return formatted attributes
        print(r['dn'], r['raw_attributes'])  # return raw (bytes) attributes
    print(result)
    c.unbind()

To move from the synchronous to the asynchronous strategy change the 'client_strategy' parameter to 'ASYNC' and
substitute the *response* and *result* assignments with::

    response, result = c.get_response(result)

That's all you have to do to have an asynchronous threaded LDAP client connection.

To get operational attributes (those attributes created automatically by the server, as createStamp, modifiedStamp, ...)
for response objects add 'get_operational_attributes = True' in the search request::

    c.search('o=test','(objectClass=*)', SUBTREE, attributes = ['sn', 'objectClass'], get_operational_attributes = True)


After a search operation you can access the connection.entries property, to get the search result with a more object
oriented representation::

    c.search('o=test','(objectClass=*)', SUBTREE, attributes = ['sn', 'givenName', 'objectClass'], get_operational_attributes = True)
    for entry in c.entries:
        print(entry.entry_get_dn())
        print(entry.givenName, entry.sn)

Look at 'Entry' in the 'abstraction layer' chapter for the description of the Entry object)


Connection context manager
--------------------------

Connections respond to the context manager protocol, so you can have automatic open, bind and unbind with the following
syntax::

    from ldap3 import Server, Connection, SUBTREE
    with Connection('servername', user='username', password='password') as c
        c.search('o=test','(objectClass=*)', SUBTREE, attributes = ['sn', 'objectClass'])  # connection is open, bound, searched and closed
    print(c.response)

When using context managers the Connection object will retains its previous state when exiting the context, that is if
the connection was closed and unbound it will remain closed and unbound when leaving the context, if the connection was
open or bound its state will be restored when exiting the context. Connection is always open and bound while in context.

When using the context manager connections will be open and bound as you enter the Connection context and will be unbound
when you leave the context. The Unbind operation will be tried even if the operations in context raise an exception.


Binding
-------

You can bind (authenticate) to the server with any of the authentication methods defined in the LDAP v3 protocol:
Anonymous, Simple and SASL. An additional NTML method is defined to access Microsoft Active Directory servers.

You can perform an automatic bind with the auto_bind=True parameter of the connection object or can connect performing
a bind() operation. The bind() operation returns a boolean to indicate if the bind was succcesful.

You can read the result of the bind operation in the 'result' attribute of the connection object. If auto_bind is not
succesful the library will raise an LDAPBindError exception.


Searching
---------

Search operation is enhanced with a few parameters:

* get_operational_attributes: when True retrieves the operational (system generated) attributes for each of the result
  entries.
* paged_size: if greater than 0 the server returns a simple paged search response with the number of entries specified
  (LDAP server must conform to RFC2696).
* paged_cookie: used for subsequent retrieval of additional entries in a simple paged search.
* paged_criticality: if True the search should fail if simple paged search is not available on the server else a full
  search is performed.

If the search filter contains the following characters you must use the relevant escape ASCII sequence, as per RFC4515
 (section 3): '*' -> '\\\\2A', '(' -> '\\\\28', ')' -> '\\\\29', '\\' -> '\\\\5C', chr(0) -> '\\\\00'

To search for a binary value you must use the RFC4515 escape ASCII sequence for each byte in the search assertion. You
can use the function *escape_bytes()* in ldap3.utils.conv for properly escape a bytes object::

    from ldap3.utils.conv import escape_bytes
    guid = b'\xca@\xf2k\x1d\x86\xcaL\xb7\xa2\xca@\xf2k\x1d\x86'
    search_filter = '(guid=' + escape_bytes(guid) + ')'
    c.search('o=test', search_filter, attributes=['guid'])

search_filter will contain *'(guid=\\ca\\40\\f2\\6b\\1d\\86\\ca\\4c\\b7\\a2\\ca\\40\\f2\\6b\\1d\\86)'*.

Raw values for the attributes retrieved are stored in the *raw_attributes* dictonary of the search result entries
in c.response. If the schema is read (with get_info=SCHEMA or get_info=ALL in the Server object) and the check_names
parameter of the Connection object is set to True, the *attributes* attribute is populated with the formatted values as
specified by the RFCs according to the schema syntaxes.

Custom formatters can be used to specify how an attribute value must be returned in the 'attributes' attribute of the
search entry object. A formatter must be a callable that receives a bytes value and returns an object. If the attribute
is defined in the schema as 'multi_value' the attribute value is returned as a list (even if only a single value is
present) else it's returned as a single value.

Formatted (following the schema and RFC indications) attributes are stored in the *attributes* dictionary of the search
result entries in c.response. This is performed only if the schema is read in the server object and the check_names
parameter is set to True else the undecoded value is returned.

Attributes key are case insensitive, this means that you can access c.response[0]['attributes']['postalAddress'] or
c.response[0]['attributes']['postaladdress'] and get the same values back.


Simple Paged search
-------------------

The search operation can perform a *simple paged search* as per RFC2696. You must specify the required number of entries
in each response set. After the first search you must send back the cookie you got with each response in each subsequent
search. If you send 0 as paged_size and a valid cookie the search operation referred by that cookie is abandoned.
The Cookie should be stored in connection.result['controls']['1.2.840.113556.1.4.319']['value']['cookie']; the server
may return an estimated total number of entries in
connection.result['controls']['1.2.840.113556.1.4.319']['value']['size']. You can change the paged_size in any
subsequent search request.

Example::

    from ldap3 import Server, Connection, SUBTREE
    total_entries = 0
    server = Server('test-server')
    c = Connection(server, user='username', password='password')
    c.search(search_base = 'o=test',
             search_filter = '(objectClass=inetOrgPerson)',
             search_scope = SUBTREE,
             attributes = ['cn', 'givenName'],
             paged_size = 5)
    total_entries += len(c.response)
    for entry in c.response:
        print(entry['dn'], entry['attributes])
    cookie = c.result['controls']['1.2.840.113556.1.4.319']['value']['cookie']
    while cookie:
        c.search(search_base = 'o=test',
                 search_filter = '(object_class=inetOrgPerson)',
                 search_scope = SUBTREE,
                 attributes = ['cn', 'givenName'],
                 paged_size = 5,
                 paged_cookie = cookie)
        total_entries += len(c.response)
        cookie = c.result['controls']['1.2.840.113556.1.4.319']['value']['cookie']
        for entry in c.response:
            print(entry['dn'], entry['attributes])
    print('Total entries retrieved:', total_entries)

If you don't want to deal directly with the cookie you can use the much simpler extended operations package that wraps
all the cookie machinery and hides implementation details, you can choose to get back a generator or the whole list of
entries found.


Working with a generator is better when you deal with very long list of entries or have memory issues::

    # generator
    total_entries = 0
    entry_generator = c.extend.standard.paged_search(search_base = 'o=test',
                                                     search_filter = '(objectClass=inetOrgPerson)',
                                                     search_scope = SUBTREE,
                                                     attributes = ['cn', 'givenName'],
                                                     paged_size = 5,
                                                     generator=True)
    for entry in entry_generator:
        total_entries += 1
        print(entry['dn'], entry['attributes])
    print('Total entries retrieved:', total_entries)

Remember that a generator can be consumed only one time, so you must elaborate the results in a sequential way.

Working with a list keeps all the found entries in a list and you can elaborate them in a random way::

    # whole result list
    entry_list = c.extend.standard.paged_search(search_base = 'o=test',
                                                search_filter = '(objectClass=inetOrgPerson)',
                                                search_scope = SUBTREE,
                                                attributes = ['cn', 'givenName'],
                                                paged_size = 5,
                                                generator=False)
    for entry in entry_list:
        print entry['attributes']
    total_entries = len(entry_list)
    print('Total entries retrieved:', total_entries)

Commit message:

Reference BIND documentation from a couple of places

docs/manual/source/quicktour.rst, after:

##########
Quick tour
##########

To use ldap3 just import the objects you need from the ldap3 namespace. You can choose the strategy that the client will
use to connect to the server, there are 5 strategies that can be used for establishing a connection: SYNC, ASYNC, LDIF,
RESTARTABLE and REUSABLE.

With synchronous strategies (SYNC, RESTARTABLE) all LDAP operations return a boolean: True if they're successful, False
if they fail.

With asynchronous strategies (ASYNC, REUSABLE) all LDAP operations (except Bind that returns a boolean) return an
integer, the *message_id* of the request. You can send multiple requests without waiting for responses and get each
response with the get_response(message_id) method of the Connection object as you need it. You will get an exception if
the response has not yet arrived after a specified time. In the get_response method this timeout value can be set
(with the *timeout* attribute)) to the number of seconds to wait for the response to appear (defaults is 10 seconds).

THe library raises one of the exceptions defined in the LDAPExceptionError hierarchy to signal errors, the last
exception message is stored in the *last_error* attribute of the Connection object when available.

After any operation, you'll find the following attributes populated in the Connection object:

* result: the result of the last operation (synchronous strategies only)
* response: the entries found if the last operation is a search operation (synchronous strategies only)
* entries: the entries found exposed via the abstraction layer (useful when using ldap3 from the interactive shell)
* last_error: any error occurred in the last operation (synchronous strategies only)
* bound: True if the connection is actually bound to the server else False
* listening: True if the socket is listening to the server
* closed: True if the socket is not open

You can have a LDIF representation of the response of a search with::

    connection.response_to_ldif()

or you can save the response to a JSON string::

    entries = connection.response_to_json()

you can alose have the response saved to a file in JSON format::

    connection.response_to_json('entries-found.json')


Connections
-----------

The connection is the main object you use to perform any LDAP operation. You can create a connection with::

    # import objects and constants
    from ldap3 import Server, Connection, SIMPLE, SYNC, ASYNC, SUBTREE, ALL

    # define the Server and the Connection objects
    s = Server('servername', port = 389, get_info = ALL)  # define an unsecure LDAP server, requesting info on the server and the schema
    c = Connection(s, auto_bind = True, client_strategy = SYNC, user='username', password='password', authentication=SIMPLE, check_names=True)
    print(s.info) # display info from the server. OID are decoded when recognized by the library

    # request a few objects from the LDAP server
    c.search('o=test','(objectClass=*)', SUBTREE, attributes = ['sn', 'objectClass'])
    response = c.response
    result = c.result
    for r in response:
        print(r['dn'], r['attributes'])  # return formatted attributes
        print(r['dn'], r['raw_attributes'])  # return raw (bytes) attributes
    print(result)
    c.unbind()

To move from the synchronous to the asynchronous strategy change the 'client_strategy' parameter to 'ASYNC' and
substitute the *response* and *result* assignments with::

    response, result = c.get_response(result)

That's all you have to do to have an asynchronous threaded LDAP client connection.

To get operational attributes (those attributes created automatically by the server, as createStamp, modifiedStamp, ...)
for response objects add 'get_operational_attributes = True' in the search request::

    c.search('o=test','(objectClass=*)', SUBTREE, attributes = ['sn', 'objectClass'], get_operational_attributes = True)


After a search operation you can access the connection.entries property, to get the search result with a more object
oriented representation::

    c.search('o=test','(objectClass=*)', SUBTREE, attributes = ['sn', 'givenName', 'objectClass'], get_operational_attributes = True)
    for entry in c.entries:
        print(entry.entry_get_dn())
        print(entry.givenName, entry.sn)

Look at 'Entry' in the 'abstraction layer' chapter for the description of the Entry object)


Connection context manager
--------------------------

Connections respond to the context manager protocol, so you can have automatic open, bind and unbind with the following
syntax::

    from ldap3 import Server, Connection, SUBTREE
    with Connection('servername', user='username', password='password') as c
        c.search('o=test','(objectClass=*)', SUBTREE, attributes = ['sn', 'objectClass'])  # connection is open, bound, searched and closed
    print(c.response)

When using context managers the Connection object will retains its previous state when exiting the context, that is if
the connection was closed and unbound it will remain closed and unbound when leaving the context, if the connection was
open or bound its state will be restored when exiting the context. Connection is always open and bound while in context.

When using the context manager connections will be open and bound as you enter the Connection context and will be unbound
when you leave the context. The Unbind operation will be tried even if the operations in context raise an exception.


Binding
-------

.. note::

   For more comprehensive information about binding, see the :doc:`BIND <bind>` documentation.

You can bind (authenticate) to the server with any of the authentication methods defined in the LDAP v3 protocol:
Anonymous, Simple and SASL. An additional NTML method is defined to access Microsoft Active Directory servers.

You can perform an automatic bind with the auto_bind=True parameter of the connection object or can connect performing
a bind() operation. The bind() operation returns a boolean to indicate if the bind was succcesful.

You can read the result of the bind operation in the 'result' attribute of the connection object. If auto_bind is not
succesful the library will raise an LDAPBindError exception.


Searching
---------

Search operation is enhanced with a few parameters:

* get_operational_attributes: when True retrieves the operational (system generated) attributes for each of the result
  entries.
* paged_size: if greater than 0 the server returns a simple paged search response with the number of entries specified
  (LDAP server must conform to RFC2696).
* paged_cookie: used for subsequent retrieval of additional entries in a simple paged search.
* paged_criticality: if True the search should fail if simple paged search is not available on the server else a full
  search is performed.

If the search filter contains the following characters you must use the relevant escape ASCII sequence, as per RFC4515
 (section 3): '*' -> '\\\\2A', '(' -> '\\\\28', ')' -> '\\\\29', '\\' -> '\\\\5C', chr(0) -> '\\\\00'

To search for a binary value you must use the RFC4515 escape ASCII sequence for each byte in the search assertion. You
can use the function *escape_bytes()* in ldap3.utils.conv for properly escape a bytes object::

    from ldap3.utils.conv import escape_bytes
    guid = b'\xca@\xf2k\x1d\x86\xcaL\xb7\xa2\xca@\xf2k\x1d\x86'
    search_filter = '(guid=' + escape_bytes(guid) + ')'
    c.search('o=test', search_filter, attributes=['guid'])

search_filter will contain *'(guid=\\ca\\40\\f2\\6b\\1d\\86\\ca\\4c\\b7\\a2\\ca\\40\\f2\\6b\\1d\\86)'*.

Raw values for the attributes retrieved are stored in the *raw_attributes* dictonary of the search result entries
in c.response. If the schema is read (with get_info=SCHEMA or get_info=ALL in the Server object) and the check_names
parameter of the Connection object is set to True, the *attributes* attribute is populated with the formatted values as
specified by the RFCs according to the schema syntaxes.

Custom formatters can be used to specify how an attribute value must be returned in the 'attributes' attribute of the
search entry object. A formatter must be a callable that receives a bytes value and returns an object. If the attribute
is defined in the schema as 'multi_value' the attribute value is returned as a list (even if only a single value is
present) else it's returned as a single value.

Formatted (following the schema and RFC indications) attributes are stored in the *attributes* dictionary of the search
result entries in c.response. This is performed only if the schema is read in the server object and the check_names
parameter is set to True else the undecoded value is returned.

Attributes key are case insensitive, this means that you can access c.response[0]['attributes']['postalAddress'] or
c.response[0]['attributes']['postaladdress'] and get the same values back.


Simple Paged search
-------------------

The search operation can perform a *simple paged search* as per RFC2696. You must specify the required number of entries
in each response set. After the first search you must send back the cookie you got with each response in each subsequent
search. If you send 0 as paged_size and a valid cookie the search operation referred by that cookie is abandoned.
The Cookie should be stored in connection.result['controls']['1.2.840.113556.1.4.319']['value']['cookie']; the server
may return an estimated total number of entries in
connection.result['controls']['1.2.840.113556.1.4.319']['value']['size']. You can change the paged_size in any
subsequent search request.

Example::

    from ldap3 import Server, Connection, SUBTREE
    total_entries = 0
    server = Server('test-server')
    c = Connection(server, user='username', password='password')
    c.search(search_base = 'o=test',
             search_filter = '(objectClass=inetOrgPerson)',
             search_scope = SUBTREE,
             attributes = ['cn', 'givenName'],
             paged_size = 5)
    total_entries += len(c.response)
    for entry in c.response:
        print(entry['dn'], entry['attributes])
    cookie = c.result['controls']['1.2.840.113556.1.4.319']['value']['cookie']
    while cookie:
        c.search(search_base = 'o=test',
                 search_filter = '(object_class=inetOrgPerson)',
                 search_scope = SUBTREE,
                 attributes = ['cn', 'givenName'],
                 paged_size = 5,
                 paged_cookie = cookie)
        total_entries += len(c.response)
        cookie = c.result['controls']['1.2.840.113556.1.4.319']['value']['cookie']
        for entry in c.response:
            print(entry['dn'], entry['attributes])
    print('Total entries retrieved:', total_entries)

If you don't want to deal directly with the cookie you can use the much simpler extended operations package that wraps
all the cookie machinery and hides implementation details, you can choose to get back a generator or the whole list of
entries found.


Working with a generator is better when you deal with very long list of entries or have memory issues::

    # generator
    total_entries = 0
    entry_generator = c.extend.standard.paged_search(search_base = 'o=test',
                                                     search_filter = '(objectClass=inetOrgPerson)',
                                                     search_scope = SUBTREE,
                                                     attributes = ['cn', 'givenName'],
                                                     paged_size = 5,
                                                     generator=True)
    for entry in entry_generator:
        total_entries += 1
        print(entry['dn'], entry['attributes])
    print('Total entries retrieved:', total_entries)

Remember that a generator can be consumed only one time, so you must elaborate the results in a sequential way.

Working with a list keeps all the found entries in a list and you can elaborate them in a random way::

    # whole result list
    entry_list = c.extend.standard.paged_search(search_base = 'o=test',
                                                search_filter = '(objectClass=inetOrgPerson)',
                                                search_scope = SUBTREE,
                                                attributes = ['cn', 'givenName'],
                                                paged_size = 5,
                                                generator=False)
    for entry in entry_list:
        print entry['attributes']
    total_entries = len(entry_list)
    print('Total entries retrieved:', total_entries)
